Around the rugged rocks the
ragged rascal ran.
Big black bug bit
a big black bear
and the big black bear
bled black blood.
Cedar Shingles should
be shaved and saved.
Don't doubt the doorbell,
but differ with the doorknob.
Eight gray geese in a
green field grazing.
A flea and a fly
flew up in a flue.
Grab the groundhog
from the glazed grass.
High roller, low roller,
lower roller.
Inexplicably mimicking
him hiccuping.
Jingle jungle jangle joker.
Knit kilts for
nasty cold nights.
[Ryou] Wow, this is hard.
[Tongue Twisters Continue]
[Kotomi] I know, I'm afraid
Octopi occupy a
porcupine's mind.
Peter Piper picked a peck
of pickled peppers.
Queen Catherine wakes the cat,
and the cat quietly cries.
Dude, this is killing me;
who's idea was this?
They were Mr. Koumura's
suggestion, believe it or not.
Supposedly, they help
practice enunciation.
If you have time to
run your mouth,
run it on tongue twisters!
Yoda met a Yeti on the
Plains of Serengeti.
Zoologists illogically
love to read astrology.
Around the rugged rocks the
ragged rascal ran.
Big black bug bit
a big black bear
and the big black bear
bled black blood.
Cedar Shingles should
be shaved and saved.
Don't doubt the doorbell,
but differ with the doorknob.
Eight gray geese in a
green field grazing.
A flea and a fly
flew up in a flue.
Hey Nagisa, is the script
coming along all right?
Yeah, it's fine. I don't
remember the whole story,
but I've been piecing it
together bit by bit.
If I don't hit any snags,
I should be done tomorrow.
Ryou and Kotomi will do sound.
Youhei and I will
handle the lighting.
Tomoya will act as producer
and stage director, okay?
Great! And that leaves me
to act everything out.
We're starting to look more and
more like a real drama club.
You're right, but there
are still a lot of things
left to decide on. Like
costumes and music...
How are we going to put
the costumes together?
Well, are any of you
good at sewing?
I guess I might be able
to do it if I tried.
I've never even picked
up a needle before.
In that case...
No problem, leave it to me!
See? Aren't you glad we
asked her after all?
I guess, but aren't
you busy, Mom?
I'll be fine!
I'll just work on it a little
at a time in between chores.
[Nagisa] I dunno... I still
feel bad for asking her.
But we don't have a choice;
there isn't anyone else
who can do it.
I just don't want
to trouble her...
So you've returned!
My lovely daughter who has
inherited my superb genes,
and a Mr. Nobody from Nowhere.
Why am I Mr. Nobody!?
[Nagisa] Hi Dad.
Oh... I rented a video
you guys might like.
Here!
Hold on! What is this place!?
Where are we!?
Worry not,
all is well my friend!
Look! Is this view
not beautiful?
Incredible!
[Actress] It's a
perfect world for you.
A video of a play, huh?
Yeah, I guess that would
be helpful, wouldn't it?
Yeah... it's good
reference since
I've never actually
seen a play before.
WHAT!? You've never
seen a play before!?
No. Not a single one.
In fact, I was sick the
day of my elementary
school play, so I didn't
even get to see that.
And our leader drops another
bombshell on us... wow.
[Applause]
[Nagisa Sobing]
Hey... you can't do research
crying like that.
I know, but I can't help it.
That was really touching...
I never realized how amazing
theater could be.
But compared to something
wonderful like this...
what we're doing is
just child's play.
Even if it is, who cares?
[Tomoya] As long as you
give it your best...
I'm sure you'll be able to touch
the hearts of the audience.
I guess you're right.
I just have to give it my best.
What do we have here?
Still getting cozy with
Nagisa at this hour?
We were watching that video
you got her, that's all.
Huh...
Perfect timing.
Come with me, kid.
Huh?
[Akio] You're looking for
something, aren't you?
Operation Training Potty
will now enter phase one.
I told you it's not
a training potty!
Can't find it...
[Akio] You sure this picture
book or fairy tale
whatever is really
in our house?
[Tomoya] Hmmm... it may be
a play after all...
Huh?
Maybe Nagisa actually did
see a play in the past,
she just forgot about it
and that's why she doesn't
remember the story.
Nope, not a chance.
If she saw a play like
that when she was younger,
I'm sure I would've remembered.
And if I don't remember,
then it didn't happen.
I can't say where she heard
the story, but I can say
it's not a play.
I see...
Oh!
Did you find it?
No... This is something else.
[Akio] Hey!
Now did you find it!?
[Akio] It's Nagisa's old
training potty!
Why are you so obsessed
with that thing!?
Hey, shut up! You were the one
looking for it, not me, dumbass!
[Sanae] Keep it down, you two!
[Sanae] You're going to
bother the neighbors!
You got us in trouble;
you happy now?
[Tomoya] Why is it my fault?
[Nagisa] I got a great
idea for the play
when I was watching that
video last night.
[Tomoya] What is it?
[Nagisa] A song!
If we add a powerful song at the
climax of the play,
I'm sure it'll liven things up.
Are you good at singing?
I never knew.
Actually, I've only sung
during music class...
but I really really think it
would make the play better
if we added a song!
Do you think it's a bad idea?
It's not that it's a bad idea...
I just think you shouldn't
overexert yourself
trying to make
everything perfect.
You're doing enough already.
You really think so?
Yeah, it's not commercial
theater or anything, right?
Just do what you want.
It'll work out fine.
You're the one making it...
so it's your play
and your stage.
My play and my stage.
You're right.
If I wanna sing a
song on stage...
then that's what I'm gonna do!
I say as long as you're
doing what you want,
then you're doing
the right thing.
[Nagisa] Right!
[Kyou] This is a world that
has come to an end.
An empty and still world
where no one exists but I.
There's a small table
and chair in this room
but outisde the window there is
nothing bu an empty plain,
stretching into an
endless horizon.
Hmmm. It's interesting.
I like it.
Yeah, that's why I've been
trying to remember the rest.
We tried to do research
on the story as well...
but we couldn't come up with the
name, no matter where we looked.
But as it's written,
it isn't finished yet, right?
[Nagisa] Right.
[Tomoya] Whaddya think?
Can you come up with any songs
that would be
good as background music?
What's the verdict, Rie?
I think I'm starting
to get it now.
All you have to do is put
yourself in the girl's shoes.
Put yourself in her shoes?
[Nishina] It's not like being
alone at home or school...
you're really completely
alone in the world.
It's a very oppressive sadness,
don't you think?
Yes... it's very lonely and sad.
Then I think music with a sort
of melancholy tone would work
well.
Hm? Oh wow!
[Kotomi] Are all of these
CD's yours, Nishina?
Well, Rie is a music
lover after all.
[Nishina] How about
we try this one?
[Music Plays]
It's a piece called
"Ma Mere L'Oye" by Ravel.
"Ma Mere," what now?
"Ma Mere L'Oye."
It's French for Mother Goose.
Since Nagisa's play takes place
in a sort of fairy tale fantasy
setting
I thought this might
be a good match.
[Nishina] Ravel composed a
number of fantasy-themed
pieces like this.
This one in particular was
based on several nursery
rhymes and fairy tales.
[Music Continues]
It's beautiful!
It's amazing how well
it fits the play!
Great, I'm glad you
thought so too!
[Door opens]
Great, I'm glad you
thought so too!
[Tomoyo] Sure is lively in here.
Sakagami.... nice to see you.
Wait, why are you wearing
glasses? It's weird.
Because my vision's bad;
why do you think?
Then why haven't I seen
you wear them before?
[Tomoyo sighs] I tried to avoid
wearing them,
because I don't like the way
they look on me.
If you don't like glasses,
then why don't you try contacts?
I'm scared of those.
[Kyou Sighs]
I can relate.
They are scary, aren't they?
Enough about the
glasses already.
How's the club doing?
As you can see, things are
moving along quite nicely.
But we still have a lot to do.
The real work starts now.
As they say,
the road goes on and on.
Let's both do our best.
[Tomoyo] Make it a promise.
Sure.
I thought so.
You're a good girl, aren't you?
I'm so glad it was you.
She's pretty cool for
a junior, I guess.
Now that we've picked
out a song,
I'm going to try acting
with the music, okay?
Watch, and tell me
what you think!
[Tomoya] At one time,
this room was empty...
But now, all of these people
have gathered here and filled
it up with life.
We all spend time together...
We all work together...
We all believe in
Nagisa's dream.
We share her sorrows
and we share her joy.
You're really
amazing... Nagisa.
All right, we're off to school.
See you guys later.
Tomorrow's finally the
School Festival, isn't it?
Give it all you've got at
today's rehearsal, okay?
Yeah! All I've got an more!
[Tomoya] No reason to
get so stressed out.
Today's just the
rehearsal, remember?
The real show isn't
until tomorrow.
Besides, you've been practicing
so much that I bet
your body will just start
moving on its own when
you're on the stage.
You're probably right.
You sure are cute, you know...
I'm sorry but can we
wait till later to talk?
Whoa, hey.
Man, she's really
in her own world.
[Male Student] Watch it,
that row is getting crooked!
[Female Student] Bring some
sheets over here too!
This is a lot more complicated
than I thought it would be.
Yeah, I know.
My arms are getting tired.
Stay right there, okay Nagisa?
If you move around too much,
we won't know your mark.
Just a little bit higher. Good.
The lights should hit
the center of the stage.
Okay, now try turning them on.
Now I'm starting to get nervous.
Now hold on a minute,
this is something my son
asked me to get for him.
I'm sorry, but I can't just
hand it over like that.
You can't find something like
this anywhere, you know.
It gets pretty dark back
here, doesn't it?
Yeah, I'll have to remember to
bring a flashlight tomorrow.
My heart is going to
beat out of my chest.
Relax, relax.
Just don't think of the audience
as people and you won't
be so nervous anymore.
Then what should I
think of them as?
Well, you know, if they're
not people, then they must be
invaders from outer space.
What kinda messed
up logic is that?
At any rate, since the aliens
are here to invade the Earth,
they don't have any interest
in what Nagisa is doing.
I don't want them to be
totally uninterested!
I want them to watch a little!
Okay, in that case,
your acting will determine
the fate of the Earth
at the hands of the invaders.
If you perform well, then
they'll leave us in peace...
but if you perfom poorly, the
human race will be wiped out!
Oh no, that's way
too much pressure!
Hey, c'mon. She's seriously
stressed out here,
so don't say anything that's
gonna make her feel worse!
But for some reason,
I'm starting to calm down.
What, seriously?
All right, next up
is the Drama Club.
Is everyone ready?
Uhm, yeah! We're ready to go!
Great. Give it your best!
I think I'm starting to
get nervous again.
You kidding? You said you were
calming down a second ago.
I know, I know.
But everyone worked so hard
to make this happen!
You're going out of your
way to help me, so I don't
want to let you down.
We're not just doing
this for you.
All of us care about
the play, too.
We're just trying to liven
up the festival, right?
I... guess so...
Everyone has a part in
the School Festival.
You don't have to feel the
pressure all by yourself.
Yeah. I guess I never
thought of it that way.
Drama Club, if you're ready,
go ahead and start.
O-okay!
We can do this, guys!
Hey, I saw this thing
on TV
where everyone puts their
hands together
and does a big cheer.
You wanna try it?
Oh yeah! I've seen that too.
It looked like fun.
I'd like to give it a try too.
Okay, everyone, hands in.
Hee hee. I used to do stuff
like this on the soccer team
all the time.
Let's go, Drama Club!
Yeah!
All right, go for it, Nagisa.
Okay!
Everyone, take your positions!
Right!
Let's go, Youhei.
Now I'm starting to
get nervous too.
Thank you so much everyone.
I'll do my best.
I'm home.
How's it going?
Welcome back.
Ah, good to see you;
you're the fruit of our love
after all.
By the way, I'm not
talking about you.
Yeah, I kinda figured.
So Nagisa, how did
the dress rehearsal go?
Well...
Uh, what did you think?
Heh. Just like every
other practice...
it went without a hitch.
I'm glad everything worked out!
I'd expect no less
of our daughter.
By tomorrow, every talent agency
in Japan will be calling her.
I dunno; I wouldn't go that far.
Come on, kid just smile and
agree with me, damn it!
Dad, Okazaki doesn't like
to flatter people.
Yeah, I know. That's why you
can count on him, right?
Nagisa, you'll give your mother
an autograph, won't you?
Talk about doting parents...
Just wait, one day when
you have a daughter,
you'll be the same way we are.
Yeah right, are you kidding me?
Oh I dunno.
I think he's right, Okazaki.
You guys are a lot alike.
No way? Me and him?!
My own daughter...
Yes sir?
What a shock; what a betrayal!
Come on, you're like,
two inches from my face.
[Knocking]
Come in.
Are you about to go to sleep,
Okazaki?
No, not yet at least.
Then, do you mind if I come in?
No.
[Nagisa] Can I sit next to you?
Yeah...
Is something bothering you?
No. Or, well, nothing in
particular, at least.
[Tomoya] Are you too
nervous to sleep?
[Nagisa] Is it that obvious?
With you, I'd be a lot
more surprised if you
COULD sleep, actually.
I'm a nervous wreck.
I'm trying not to worry,
but I can't help it.
It's your first performance,
I don't blame you.
But if you get all
the nervous out tonight,
you'll be fine tomorrow.
That's a good idea.
I'll try to be as nervous
as I can right now.
By the way, your mom and dad are
coming to watch the play
tomorrow too, aren't they?
Yeah.
[Tomoya] Is something wrong?
No... actually I'm more
grateful than anything.
I realized today just how much
my mom and dad really care
for me, that's all.
I know what you mean.
It's hard to find
parents like them.
But it makes me feel
kind of guilty, too.
I still wish I knew what
happened when I was young...
Oh, that. You mean how you
think you did something bad
to your parents when
you were a kid?
Yeah.
Cause knowing her,
she'll think it was her fault.
She'll think she's the
reason why Sanae and I had
to give up on our dreams.
Okazaki? Did I say
something weird?
Oh, no...
[Tomoya] Listen, Nagisa...
[Nagisa] Yes?
Sometimes you can be way
too sensitive about
that kinda stuff.
You have this bad habit of
blaming everything on yourself.
So don't get caught up on
this-you're probably just
imagining things.
Right now, the only thing you
need to focus on is the play.
You can worry about the
other stuff later.
I guess... you're right.
I'll take your advice.
I'm sure it's nothing.
Goodnight, Okazaki.
Yeah. See you tomorrow.
Okazaki, um...
Thank you for listening to me.
I should be able to sleep now,
I think.
Check to make sure you
have everything you
need for the play.
Okay.
My costume, my towel...
Oh! That's right. I need a
flashlight for backstage.
Nagisa?
Oh, Okazaki, it's you...
Those pictures...
I found a bunch of old photo
albums and diaries.
I can't believe it.
I had no idea at all, Okazaki.
Dad used to be an actor
when he was younger.
He gave it up because
of me, didn't he?
They both gave up their
dreams for me...
Nagisa, forget about this,
all right?
Just try to get some
rest for now.
I'll clean things up here...
you just try to get as much
sleep as you can, okay?
After picking Nagisa up
from kindergarten,
we took a walk down
to the river together.
I'm so happy I get to spend
time with her every day.
Although I miss
teaching sometimes,
if I hadn't quit, I never
would've experienced
so much happiness.
I messed up, huh?
This is the worst time for
this to have happened.
Damn it all...
I couldn't help but notice how
happy my parents looked in all
those photos.
But of course they were happy;
They were living out
their dreams.
Not only that, it was
a happiness that could've
lasted forever.
That's not true!
Besides, don't you think
they're still happy now?
But they still had to give
up on their dreams.
Am I wrong?
And look at me... all
this time I've been trying
to live out my dream
without even thinking that
they had to sacrifice theirs.